Are you a procrastinator? Me too, especially in front of a computer. Who wants
the daily slog with the Internet just two clicks away?

I started a quest for tools and ideas to help me concentrate (I know, I
know...). I found a very good book, unfortunately written in French: "Comment ne
pas tout remettre au lendemain", by Bruno Koelz.

It turns out that the hardest part of not
procrastinating is getting to work, by which I mean staying concentrated long
enough to really get into the problem. Once this stage is passed, you usually
enter a state of flow and continuing to work is a lot easier and more rewarding.

For this reason, I wrote a very small applet that allows me to pass a contract
with myself: by clicking the icon, I commit to fully concentrate on a given
problem for no less than 10 minutes. The icon becomes red for ten minutes, after
which it turns green. I am then free to either continue working or do something
else.

The duration is voluntarily small because no matter how boring the task is, ten
minutes is always doable. It is easier to commit knowing I have an escape.

Since tweaking productivity application parameters is a great way to waste time,
the applet has absolutely no configuration options, dialogs, logs, etc. I tried
to make it as simple as possible and to avoid including any feature that is not
absolutely necessary to accomplish the goal.

Why "Tomate"? Tomate is the French word for tomato, or "Pomodoro" in Italian,
which is the name of a similar and popular technique. The Pomodoro technique
consists in working in sets of 25 minutes, with mandatory breaks between the
chunks. I feel my method is more efficient, because it is a waste to take breaks
when you're concentrated and don't need them.

About the code: the applet is written in Python 2 and PyGTK. It is only tested
on linux, but it should work on other platforms as well. Feedback welcome!
(joel.schaerer@gmail.com)
